# Final Project Submission
In order to submit your final work you'll need to register for the workshops in creative coding assignments blog.

Follow these steps:
1. Click [here](http://doc.gold.ac.uk/~tpapa001/wccterm1/wp-login.php?action=register) (term1) or [here](http://doc.gold.ac.uk/~tpapa001/wccterm2/wp-login.php?action=register) (for term 2) to register on the site. You should then receive an email with a link. Follow that link to set a new password and login. Alternatively you can click [here](http://doc.gold.ac.uk/~tpapa001/wccterm1/wp-login.php) to login.
2. Once you have logged in click on `Profile` on the left column and enter at least your first name so that I know who submitted it.
3. Click on `Posts` and then `Add New` (both on the left side).
4. __IMPORTANT:__ On the bottom right corner click on `set featured image` and select an image you feel represents your project. This could be anything you want from a screenshot of your work, you interacting with your software or the picture someone else took (no gifs please). After uploading the image, find on the right side of the page the section called `Format` and click `image`. If you don't do this step your work won't appear on the main page. After doing this step go to the [main page](http://doc.gold.ac.uk/~tpapa001/wccterm1/) and make sure your post is there.
5. You can now go ahead and write the project description as well as embed the video from the work. Full details of what to submit can be found [here](http://gitlab.doc.gold.ac.uk/comp_arts_2015/workshops_in_creative_coding/blob/master/miscellanea/assessment.md). Remember the description and the video account for 30% of your final grade. High quality video and text are an easy way to earn almost a third of the final mark. Video should be no more than 5 minutes! The easiest way to include video is to upload it to youTube or vimeo and embed it by copy-pasting the link on the post you're writing.
6. Remember to put your code on gitlab (in the sandbox repository) and put a _clear_ link on your post to the code.
